doc: revisions (#4612)
dfinity/motoko: doc/md/writing-motoko/pattern-matching.md

## Refutable patterns and dealing with non-matching data

IMPROVE ME

> Developers may only be interested in specially formed data with a desire to directly handle all non-matching forms. The `let`-`else` construct is designed precisely for this purpose. Whereas the regular destructuring `let` allows to focus on a single given pattern, it invariably traps if the right-hand side data doesn't match it, which is warned at compilation. The `else` clause gives the programmer a way to deal with refuted matches, such as bailing out of the process or logging a message before trapping. As such, `let`-`else` is similar to a two-`case` `switch` in a compact form that additionally doesn't force the indentation of the processing logic following it.

Author: ```suggestion
The `let`-`else` construct in Motoko is designed for developers who want to work with a specific pattern of data while  handling all non-matching data on a different control-flow path. Unlike the standard destructuring `let`, which traps (and triggers a compile-time warning) when the data doesn't match the expected pattern, `let`-`else` provides a way to manage refuted matches. This construct allows programmers to gracefully handle mismatches, such as exiting the current function or logging a message before trapping.

`let`-`else` can be seen as a more compact version of a two-case `switch` statement. It has the added benefit of not requiring indentation for the code that follows it, which can improve readability. This feature enables developers to write non-indenting `if`-`else`-like structures in their code.

Here's an example demonstrating how to use `let`-`else` to avoid a less readable, indentation increasing `switch`:
```

> The below example illustrates how you can write a non-indenting `if`-`else` by resorting to a `let`-`else` in your code:

Author: ```
The `let`-`else` construct in Motoko is designed for developers who want to work with a specific pattern of data while  handling all non-matching data on a different control-flow path. Unlike the standard destructuring `let`, which traps (and triggers a compile-time warning) when the data doesn't match the expected pattern, `let`-`else` provides a way to manage refuted matches. This construct allows programmers to gracefully handle mismatches, such as exiting the current function or logging a message before trapping.

`let`-`else` can be seen as a more compact version of a two-case `switch` statement. It has the added benefit of not requiring indentation for the code that follows it, which can improve readability. This feature enables developers to write non-indenting `if`-`else`-like structures in their code.

Here's an example demonstrating how to use `let`-`else` to avoid a less readable, indentation increasing `switch`:
```

> The below example illustrates how you can write a non-indenting `if`-`else` by resorting to a `let`-`else` in your code:

Author: ```suggestion
Here's an example demonstrating how to use `let`-`else` to avoid a less readable, indentation-increasing `switch`:
```

``` motoko
func getName(optionalName : ?Text) : Text {
  let ?name = optionalName else return "Unknown";
  name
}
```

> The expression (or block) following the `else` must be of type `None` signifying that its execution trajectory mustn't contribute to the code immediately following the `let` declaration.

Author: ```suggestion
In a `let-else` construct, the expression or block following the `else` keyword must have type `None`. This indicates that its execution cannot enter the code following the `let` declaration but must change the flow of control, typically by returning early, breaking to some enclosing label or trapping.
```

## Option blocks for streamlined processing of optional data

> Pattern matching on optional data (of type `?T`) is a preferred technique for avoiding the dreaded `null`-exception problems known from other languages. However, `switch`-ing on several options can be tedious and can lead to deeply nested code. To address this issue, Motoko provides *option blocks* (`do ? { ... }`) that allow safe unwrapping of options using a postfix `!` operator. Every use of the `!` in the block corresponds to a `switch` on some option, with the additional short-circuiting behavior that if `!` is applied to a `null` value, the entire block stops evaluation and immediately returns `null`.

Author: ```suggestion
Motoko offers a preferred method for handling optional data (of type `?T`) through pattern matching, which helps avoid the notorious `null`-exception issues common in other programming languages. However, using multiple switch statements on various options can become cumbersome and result in deeply nested, hard-to-read code. To address this, Motoko introduces a feature called "option blocks," written as `do ? { ... }`. These blocks allow for safe unwrapping of optional values using a postfix `!` operator. Each use of `!` within the block is equivalent to a switch statement on an option, but with an added benefit: if `!` is applied to a `null` value, the entire block immediately halts execution and returns `null`. This short-circuiting behavior simplifies the handling of multiple optional values in a more concise and readable manner.
```

> Motoko offers a preferred method for handling optional data (of type `?T`) through pattern matching, which helps avoid the notorious `null`-exception issues common in other programming languages. However, using multiple switch statements on various options can become cumbersome and result in deeply nested, hard-to-read code. To address this, Motoko introduces a feature called "option blocks," written as `do ? { ... }`. These blocks allow for safe unwrapping of optional values using a postfix `!` operator. Each use of `!` within the block is equivalent to a switch statement on an option, but with an added benefit: if `!` is applied to a `null` value, the entire block immediately halts execution and returns `null`. This short-circuiting behavior simplifies the handling of multiple optional values in a more concise and readable manner.

Author: ```suggestion
Motoko offers a preferred method for handling optional data (of type `?T`) through pattern matching, which helps avoid the notorious `null`-exception issues common in other programming languages. However, using multiple switch statements on various options can become cumbersome and result in deeply nested, hard-to-read code. To address this, Motoko introduces a feature called *option blocks*, written as `do ? { ... }`. These blocks allow for safe unwrapping of optional values using a postfix `!` operator. Each use of `!` within the block is equivalent to a switch statement on an option, but with an added benefit: if `!` is applied to a `null` value, the entire block immediately halts execution and returns `null`. This short-circuiting behavior simplifies the handling of multiple optional values in a more concise and readable manner.
```

## Refutable patterns and dealing with non-matching data

> IMPROVE ME

Author: ```suggestion
```
